Would you like to assist
with a theocratic building project?
You may see reports regarding
branch construction and renovation
or the need for new Kingdom Halls
and remote translation offices (RTOs),
and this may cause you to wonder
if you could have a share.
Well, that is a wonderful goal.
Now, as we’ve considered in this symposium,
it takes faith to do more for Jehovah.
Likewise, faith is required
to share in a theocratic building project.
Now, why is that?
Well, generally, there are two concerns:
(1) We may lack experience.
We may feel that we do not have
construction, design,
engineering, or real estate experience,
and thus we may feel inadequate
to assist with a Local/Design
Construction Department (LDC)
or other project.
Or (2) we may also realize
that to begin assisting,
generally, we do so on a temporary basis.
Therefore, we may have concerns
about leaving our job
or our family for a period of time to assist.
Well, if you can relate to those concerns,
then, no doubt the example of Nehemiah
will build your faith.
Turn, please, to Nehemiah 1:2, 3
—Nehemiah 1:2, 3:
“At that time Hanani, one of my brothers,
“arrived with other men from Judah,
“and I asked them about the remaining Jews
who had escaped the captivity,
“and also about Jerusalem.
“They replied: ‘Those remaining
there in the province
“‘who have survived the captivity
are in a terrible situation
“‘and in disgrace.
“‘The walls of Jerusalem are broken down,
and its gates have been burned with fire.’”
Nehemiah here is presented with a need.
What would he do?
Would he say: ‘Oh, I hope
those skilled brothers
help that situation one day.’
Look at chapter 2 and verse 5:
“I then said to the king:
“‘If it pleases the king and if your servant
has found favor with you,
“‘send me to Judah, to the city
where my forefathers are buried,
so that I may rebuild it.’”
Yes, Nehemiah was moved; he wanted to help.
He saw an opportunity
and demonstrated his faith.
He took the initiative.
Now, did it take faith for Nehemiah
to take this step?
Well, no doubt it did.
But why do we say that?
Well, first off, what was
Nehemiah’s work assignment?
Was he the head
of the king’s construction project?
Was he the leading architect
or engineer or a city planner?
No.
No, rather, he was the cupbearer to the king.
You can picture him saying:
‘Well I don’t have the experience
‘to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.
‘I wouldn’t even know where to start.
Maybe I best leave that to somebody else.’
No, rather, he saw the need;
he had the circumstances to help,
and he acted on that need.
Nehemiah did not let
his possible lack of experience
hold him back.
That took faith.
Now, what about the fact that this was
only a temporary assignment?
Well, Nehemiah, again, was willing to leave
this prestigious position
as the cupbearer to the king.
When you think about it,
he could have wondered
whether his replacement
would take over his position permanently.
Would his nice job be there
when he returned from Jerusalem?
Well, Nehemiah showed faith
that Jehovah had loyal love
and would remember him.
Notice his words at Nehemiah 1:5:
“I said: ‘O Jehovah, the God of the heavens,
“‘the great and awe-inspiring God
“‘who keeps his covenant and shows loyal love
to those who love him
and keep his commandments.’”
Yes, Nehemiah was confident
that Jehovah would show loyal love.
Jehovah would work things out.
What was the result of Nehemiah’s faith?
Well, although at first Nehemiah
was not known as a builder,
Jehovah used him in a mighty way
to accomplish his will.
And Nehemiah contributed to the rebuilding
of the walls of Jerusalem
in significant ways.
What’s the lesson?
Well, the lesson is that we need faith
if we are going to assist
with a theocratic building project.
Now, primarily, we need brothers and sisters
who have a strong relationship
with Jehovah and a willing spirit.
Those are the qualities we need.
Construction or technical skills
can be learned.
Strong faith will give us the confidence
that if we are invited,
Jehovah will make us equal to the task
and help us to develop the skills
that are needed,
and faith will also help us to trust
that Jehovah will care for us
when our assignment is over.
In the following video, note how Sarah
found the courage
to assist in a theocratic building project.
Hi, darling, we’re back.
When I learned that I was invited to work
for a few weeks on the upcoming
construction project, I was thrilled.
But that excitement
quickly turned into anxiety
because of what I had to do.
I prayed to Jehovah for weeks
to give me the strength
to have the conversation with my employer.
All right, Sarah, come in!
So?
I wanted to, first of all, say thank you
for taking the time to meet with me, . . .
I began to explain
about the construction project
and how I had been invited to volunteer.
. . . and I would
really like the time to . . .
So you want time off
during the busiest time of our year?
Well, yes, but . . .
It’s your choice, but under no circumstances
will I hold your position.
Suddenly, this beautiful privilege
felt like a huge risk.
Was I making my life
more complicated by doing this?
I read the account
about the people in Nehemiah’s day.
Their willing spirit demonstrated faith,
and Jerusalem’s walls were built by people
who “put their heart into the work.”
I didn’t want to miss out
on the opportunity
to serve Jehovah in that way.
This is my resignation letter.
I had to have faith that Jehovah
would bless my decision.
I’m not sure what the future holds
when I get back,
but I know Jehovah will take care of me.
For now, I’m going to focus
on putting my heart into the work.
Can you relate to when Sarah
went to meet her employer
or how she struggled
with the decision of what to do?
Well, how did Sarah resolve her concerns?
Well, remember, she examined
the example of Nehemiah and others,
and this gave her courage to act
and, as a result, she enjoyed many blessings.
Well, many of our brothers and sisters
have made the same choice.
For example, one couple
had to give up their apartment
and resign from their secular employment
to help with a project.
Now, they said they did feel some anxiety
as the end of their six-month assignment
neared,
but they trusted that Jehovah
would help them, and help he did.
When they returned,
they called their former employer.
Not only did he offer them their job back
but it was with better terms.
And they said that within one week
of returning back,
they had found a new apartment.
In another example, the LDC Department
invited a brother
to work for a few months on a project.
Now, at the time, he was working full-time
with a major company.
He had good benefits, a good salary,
a company car, housing.
He requested a leave of absence.
They denied his request.
Our brother decided to take
the LDC assignment anyway.
He was fired from his job.
So, what would he do
after he completed his assignment?
Well, he was actually able to find
a part-time job
that has allowed him to stay
in full-time service,
and now he is a pioneer.
He and his wife are pioneers,
and he’s serving as a remote volunteer
for a branch construction project.
Similar stories are repeated over and over.
Jehovah foretold that during these last days
“a great crowd” would worship him acceptably,
and the fulfillment of that prophecy
has created an urgent need
for more Kingdom Halls, Assembly Halls,
branch facilities, and RTOs.
Now, we understand
that the pandemic has limited
theocratic building projects
to some extent at this time.
However, there is still much work to do
now and on into the future.
So if your health and circumstances permit,
make yourself available.
You can do so by filling out the A-19
and DC-50 applications.
Your elders can help you
to access these on jw.org.
So if assisting with a theocratic
building project is your goal,
you can be confident that you too
will become powerful by faith.
Take that leap.
You will enjoy Jehovah’s support
and many, many blessings.
Now, Brother Gajus Glockentin,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will consider the final talk
of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—‘Set Something Aside’ for Jehovah’s Work.”